# Rails application and bundles

In this section, we will create our official Rails application for the final project, as well as configuring the necessary
bundles.

### Creating Rails application

*   Open Command Prompt
*   Go to your desire directory, assuming "Desktop"
        > cd Desktop
*   Creating your project
        > rails new aiw

Now you will see a lot of things being generated by Rails. Also at the end of the process, there will be a
**bundle install** to make sure you catch up with the default bundles.

### Configuring Gemfile

The default Gemfile is not really correct for our final project becasue:

*   We are not going to use SQLite
*   We will use *** MySQL *** --> we need to install this bundle
*   We need ** [Devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise "Devise github page") ** gem for authentication (may be)
*   We need ** [ActiveAdmin](https://github.com/activeadmin/activeadmin "Active Admin github page") ** so we can quickly have
a full-featured backend site

The standard Gemfile should be (you can copy this and replace to your own Gemfile):

        source 'https://rubygems.org'

        gem 'rails', '4.1.6'
        gem 'mysql2'
        gem 'sass-rails', '~> 4.0.3'
        gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
        gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.0.0'
        gem 'jquery-rails'
        gem 'turbolinks'
        gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.0'
        gem 'sdoc', '~> 0.4.0',          group: :doc
        gem 'spring',        group: :development
        gem 'devise'
        gem 'activeadmin', github: 'activeadmin'
        gem 'tzinfo-data'
        gem 'bcrypt-ruby', :require => "bcrypt"

After updating this Gemfile, remember to:

*   Run bundle install:
        > bundle install

*   Update the bundles to the latest version
        > bundle update

*   ** Push this update to Github **

### Configuring database connection

As we are going to use MySQL instead of SQLite, we need to reconfigure this parameter.

Go to ** config/database.yml ** , replace the content of this file with the following code:

        default: &default
          adapter: mysql2
          encoding: utf8
          database: aiw2014
          username: root
          password: 123456 # replace this password with your MySQL password
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 3306

        development:
          <<: *default
          database: aiw2014

        test:
          <<: *default
          database: aiw2014

        production:
          <<: *default
          database: aiw2014

*** REMEMBER: *** to change the password of MySQL to your own computer MySQL password (for example: blank or root)

### Creating your database in MySQL

First thing first, we need to create a real database in MySQL. Traditionally, you would open some MySQL Browser such as
** phpMyAdmin ** and create a database.

** BUT **, in Rails, we are going to have something called "migration". To create the database, we need to run:

        rake db:create

And then:

        rake db:migrate

And voila! You're done with creating databases and all tables (if any)

### Testing your very first app

Now, we will test if all of the configurations above work properly, open Command Prompt and run (in your aiw project):

        rails server

Open a browser, type in the address

        http://localhost:3000/

If you see a "Welcome aboard" page, it means your application works perfectly! We now can start the real development here